>> Anjana Vakil: Time to talk
about another class of functions,
let's say that is hugely useful, if not
indispensable, to functional programming.
And this also has to do with how we
remember things that in our imperative
life we were used to doing with state.
We were used to remembering, like what
the state of the program is at any
moment with variables that
the values change over time.
And we just said that in
implementing our reducer functions,
we use an accumulator instead.
In functional programming,
we use a value to remember kind of
where we're at in our repetition,
another way that we can remember
things to use them later is closure.
So that is our next topic of discussion.
So, closure is not just
something that's hard to
find after a breakup,
it's also [LAUGH] a very useful
concept that has to do with
the scope in functions.
>> Anjana Vakil: So in addition to
functions being able to be higher order in
the sense that they take in another
function like filter, map, and
reduce do, we can also define
a new function within a function.
Let's take a look,
[LAUGH] what I'm talking about.
So this is when we have these kind of
nested function definitions, this is,
I'm using the function keyword, but you
also might see this with arrow functions.
Although we're not so
much gonna be defining new functions and
arrow functions.
Okay, so in this case I have
a function called makeAjectifier,
[LAUGH] which returns another function.
And makeAdjectifier takes in an adjective,
and
the function that it returns
uses that adjective to objectify
whatever noun I'm gonna pass in
to the adjectifier that I made.
[LAUGH] Okay, so let's say I'm gonna
assign, I'm gonna call makeAdjectifier
with the word cool, and that's gonna
give me a function called coolify.
And so, if I want to coolify a workshop,
I get cool workshop.
If I want to coolify a drink,
I get cool drink.
But notice that the word cool is not part
of my calls to coolify, why is that?
Well, because it is sort
of baked in to coolify.
Essentially, what we're doing here,
when we create this new function
inside an adjective is just a value
here as far as JavaScript is concerned.
And when we define this function,
we know what that value is because
we're calling makeAdjectifier.
So JavaScript takes that value,
which is only available in
the scope of makeAdjectifier,
and uses it inside the returned function.
>> Anjana Vakil: So when I actually
get out this returned function,
it still has that value
baked into its code.
>> Anjana Vakil: In other words,
it remembers the value from the scope
in which it was defined even after we
as programmers have left that scope.
The function is sort of locked in
to that scope, the inner function,
in the sense that it has access to that
adjective only at the time that it's
defined, like, what is the adjective?
Well, that happens at definition,
it's cool.
And then forever and ever now, coolify
is gonna make everything cool, not hot,
unfortunately, for northern climates
in northern hemisphere winter.
[LAUGH] All right, so
this is a very simple example, but
this is a super powerful concept.
What this means is that,
we don't have to take every single little
piece of data that we need to do
computation and make it part of
the function signature, cuz that
would get very unwieldy very fast.
We can also do techniques like closures,
where we say this inner function
is closed over adjective
because adjective is
sort of set in stone now.
The opportunity to change
adjective has closed, and so,
these closures can become very powerful
when we start needing to have more and
more complex computations.
We can start baking those
in to inner functions and
creating closures that we can then
remember the value as needed.
Let's take a moment to talk
about a little jargon.
So we said a closure is one of these
kind of inner functions that closes over
some value from its defining scope.
And another way of or
another term you'll hear used
to talk about doing something like
coolify here is partial application.
So closures are a type of partial
application of functions.
And I'm only using this term,
not because the jargon is important,
but because you might encounter it in
your further learnings and readings.
And what this means is, if we have
a function that takes two arguments,
in general, if I wanted to take in
an adjective, and take in a noun,
and smoosh them together,
I would need two arguments.
We're kinda locking in one of
those arguments, in this case,
adjective and splitting up the scope
of where adjective is passed in.
It's passed in to make ejectifier,
which is sort of
a partial application of
like adjective plus noun.
So coolify is like half done with this.
It still doesn't know what the noun is,
but
it knows what the adjective is gonna be.
So we could say that, if I had a function
that was just like function, adjective
noun returns adjective plus noun, we would
say this is like a partial application.
It's one of the arguments has been
locked in, but not all of them.
Anyway, just a little jargon note.
And so, the idea is that this means
we can make more reusable functions.
So for example, every time I want a cool
workshop, or a cool drink, or cool movie,
or whatever, I don't have to keep
passing in cool over and over.
I can lock it in and
have a partially applied adjective plus
noun function called coolify,
which then I can just
finish out the application by
passing in that next thing or
in case of multi-argument functions,
whatever other values I need.
Okay, so, there is another concept that
we're not gonna have time to cover,
that you might also run into here.
But there is a jargon term called currying
and essentially what this means is,
it's a very common practice in functional
programming to take a function
that could ostensibly have two arguments,
right?
Like, maybe I had a function that's just
like adjective, fine noun that says,
give me the adjective, give me the noun,
and I will return the concatenation.
That wouldn't be a super, or
it would just be really annoying to
have to keep passing in cool every time.
And so, instead what we've done is,
we've essentially taken what would
have been a two-argument function and
we've turned it into a nested
series of one-argument functions.
And that is a technique called currying,
which basically means you have
a partial application where each
function takes in the next argument and
returns the partially applied function.
Which then takes in the next argument and
Anyway, this is just a way
of saying that sometimes,
instead of working with a multi-argument
signature, we might wanna break that
up into partially applied functions so
that we can lock in some of those values.
So that we don't have to keep repeating
our self over and over again,
because you know me, I'm gonna make a typo
in one of those cools, it's gonna be like,
cowl, or, cool, or something like that.
So, we don't wanna be doing that,
I just wanna type cool one time and
never have to worry about it again.
And currying is a technique that often
goes hand-in-hand with closures.
It's sort of a it leverages closures.
So anyway,
this is a term that you encounter.
You can deep dive into it, but this is
something that is very closely related to
this idea of partial application.
So in currying,
what we would do like, yeah,
here's another example of
a similar type of function.
We have a greet function that we saw
earlier that takes in a greeting
and a name.
And if we wanna curry that function,
meaning turn it into, instead of a single
binary function, meaning a function
with a two-argument signature.
We will partially apply
[LAUGH] just the greeting and
return a new function
that takes in a name, and
that function is what's gonna
return the final output.
So then, it's starts to get
a little bit more weird looking
once you get into many,
many different arguments.
Because you'll start to see things
like curryGreet, howdy, open parens,
Alonzo, like these kind of
successive paren, paren, paren.
So if you see code like that that's like,
take this thing in parens and
then call it on this thing in parens,
and then call it on this thing parens,
you're probably dealing with closures.
It might be a curried function.
So anyway, so this is the idea that
often it's useful to break up function
signatures like this so that we can
create these reusable utilities.
Now, this is probably not one
you're gonna need anytime soon
in your JavaScript journey.
But there are lots of other cases where
we wanna be able to reuse the same
value over and over again in our
code without having to pass it
in as an argument to every single
call to every single function.
So scope is what it's all about,
and the notion of closure,
meaning the notion that we can lock in
the outer scope into the inner scope.
Is what's gonna allow us to
make more modular functional
programs that we can reuse and
recombine as need be.
And we will talk about
the combining part later.